>> Good afternoon.
Welcome to Cocoa Today.
( Applause )
>> My name is Ali Ozer, I'm the manager of the
Cocoa Frameworks Team at Apple.
So today we have a pretty packed agenda.
The bulk of the talk is about what's new in Leopard,
and the highlights of what we've added to Leopard.
Before but that I am just going spend a
few minutes talking about what Cocoa is.
Especially for those of you who are
new to the platform or new to Cocoa.
And then at the end we're going
to spend a few minutes talking
about best practices in creating your Leopard application.
So what is Cocoa?
Cocoa is the term we use for the object-oriented frameworks
for developing fuel featured applications on Mac OS X.
And when we say Cocoa, we often refer
to the three-core Cocoa frameworks,
Foundation Kit, which is the non UI layer of Cocoa.
Core Data, which is the data model and persistency
layer, and AppKit, which is the UI layer of Cocoa.
Now Cocoa sits in the system next to Carbon
and Java, which are the application frameworks.
Above this, of course, are applications, and below this
layer are Darwin, and of course the graphics layer.
Quartz, OpenGL, Core Animation, and QuickTime, and so on.
Now this is -- if there is one thing that
embodies a philosophy of Cocoa, it is this;
imple things simple, complex things possible.
If you've been to WWDC before you've probably heard this.
You might have read it places.
But this is basically how we design Cocoa.
Try to make simple, obvious things that all
applications have to do simple, but also enable things,
complex things that you want to do in your applications.
And we're going to go and give examples
of this throughout the talk today.
Now one thing this doesn't mean is that Cocoa is simple.
What do I mean by that?
Cocoa is not something you're going
to learn from a quick reference card.
You know, sometimes people think oh, I'll go to WWDC
and afterwards I'll write applications
that evening or something.
And that's definitely not the case.
With Cocoa, there are a number of things to learn.
You're going to learn the APIs, the program interfaces,
the conventions, the best practices, and Objective-C.
And I am actually going to talk about these
at various points during the talk today.
But once you learn Cocoa, once you've, you know, learned
all these things I showed you, you're actually enabled
to do much more, be much more productive
with much less code and effort.
With Cocoa, the philosophy is we write the common
code, you write the things that distinguish your app.
And of course the less code you write, the less code
you have to debug, the less code you have to maintain,
and more of your functionality your leveraging.
Now, sometimes people see demos of Cocoa, you know,
somebody gets on stage, puts together a calculator app
or a temperature converter app, or a recipe app -- and
you know, the app is nice and simple, and looks great.
And doesn't require any code.
And you know, folks get the impression Cocoa is great.
But it's for simple applications.
And that's not quite true.
There are many, many applications out there,
many powerful and sophisticated applications.
Some of these are from Apple.
And many of those are from third parties like yourselves.
And there are literally hundreds of applications out there.
And the good news about these apps,
you know, many of these apps,
is that they are not only powerful and
sophisticated, they're a joy to use.
Many of these are applications,
you just want to, you know, bring up and do things in.
And you want to get your friends and family to use them.
And there's, you know , they're not only consistent,
UI powerful, and also a lot of attention to detail.
In fact, let me -- let me show an example of that.
Here's the icon for Coda, from Panic.
An application that was released two months ago.
And I was looking at this icon -- yeah.
It's a great app.
It's a bug development app.
I was looking at this and I noticed that they
actually have a 5, 12 by 5 icon in their app wrapper.
And this is what we've been telling people to do as
a forward-looking move for resolution independence.
And I was looking at this, I was
looking at it a little bit more,
and I noticed in the stem -- I
don't know if you can see that.
Let me zoom just a little more.
There are those little hairs on the stem.
And those are called try cones, I think.
If I'm pronouncing it correctly.
But there's so much detail in here.
And this is just so today, on the screen.
You know, you can see that.
But some day in your super-high resolution display
you'll be able to count the hairs on that leaf.
So that's great attention to detail there.
Okay. So let me spend a few minutes
talking about what makes Cocoa powerful.
Well, as I mentioned, it's object-oriented classes.
And it's just -- not just any object-oriented
classes, but well-designed object-oriented classes.
And there's a growing set of powerful libraries.
I already mentioned AppKit, Core Data,
and Foundation as the core of Cocoa.
But there's a number of other frameworks that are
on the system and that let you access the back-ends
of the applications we ship, such as
Address Book, iChat, Calendar Store,
and of course this graphics capabilities, the input methods
Disc Recording and so on.
There's a lot of frameworks on the system that are --
plugged into Cocoa well, and that
you can use in your applications.
And these use Cocoa conventions,
which are all very consistent.
I am going to talk about this right now.
When I say consistent conventions, I mean that all these
APIs that are Cocoa compatible use the same nuts and bolts.
The common currency of Cocoa applications is NS strings.
For instance, if you have character
strings you're communicating
between layers, it's almost always an NS string.
It's not a (Inaudible) or anything else.
It's an NS string.
Similarly, NS arrays, NS datas, NS URL, NS View.
These are the common currencies.
So we can take these APIs and plug
them into each other very easily.
And there's a small number of mechanisms and conventions.
Here I've listed, you know, five
bullet points worth of them.
And once you learn these you pretty much become familiar
with 90-95 percent of the paradigms used in Cocoa APIs.
You know, when you approach a new Cocoa
API you will see, oh, this uses delegation.
That's great.
Oh, and this is KVO compliant.
And object ownership memory management rules,
the last one on that list, as an example.
We've had these rules for ever since Cocoa's been around.
And as we move into the world of Garbage Collection,
it turns out the rules are totally
consistent with garbage collection.
So there's no change there.
And if anything, of course, memory
management rules get simpler.
So again, you learn this small number of mechanisms,
conventions, and you are familiar with a lot of Cocoa APIs.
Objective-C is a super-set of C. It's
native, and C compatible calling conventions.
What this means is the way arguments are placed
on the stack under different architectures
and et cetera, is the same for C and Objective-C.
And this, of course, means you can
cross-call into C back and forth no problems.
There's great C++ integration,
even better in Leopard.
And Objective-C is also very dynamic.
It's got this great runtime system which can introspect.
You can ask questions about methods, classes,
et cetera, and using that dynamic functionality,
it's a bridge to other languages like Ruby and Python.
Cocoa is not an isolated box.
It's not -- all this power doesn't come
at the price of having an environment
which is self-contained and can't
interact with other pieces.
Since it uses C calling conventions, it can easily
call into APIs such as POSIX.
You can download pretty much any open source
package from any open source UNIX package
and integrate it into your Cocoa application no problem.
And it also interacts with Carbon.
Before Leopard, the interaction was at the
lower levels, and also at the window layer.
And in Leopard we now have an HI
Cocoa view type, in HI Toolbox,
which let's you incorporate Cocoa
views into Carbon applications.
I am not going to talk much more about this,
but there is a session Thursday afternoon,
Session 145 where you can hear the HI Toolbox
team talk about this new technology.
Cocoa is native Mac OS X. Cocoa is not a cross-platform
environment that's been ported to Mac OS X,
and that repeatedly has to be ported
over and over to keep pace
with Mac OS X. Cocoa and Mac OS X are very well integrated.
And as a result Cocoa provides native -- you know,
absolute, great support for Mac OS X features, such as Aqua,
accessibility, printing, all these features are
defined by Cocoa for the environment, basically.
And finally, what makes Cocoa powerful are the tools.
As you heard yesterday, there's a new
version of Interface Builder, IB 3.
Now interface builder is the user interface design tool,
but it's much more than just a user interface design tool.
It not only let's you lay out windows views
controls, it also let's you create the relationships
between these -- object relationships between them.
It lets you save these out, archive these out,
to files which are read back at the runtime.
So those objects are brought back to life.
And this is very powerful.
You can create a lot of your -- the logic --
that would normally have required glue code in
IB visually by connecting these objects together.
It's a very integral part of Cocoa application development.
Sometimes people ask how can I
create my UI without using IB.
And you know, that's possible.
It's totally possible to write dozens or hundreds
of lines of code to sort of establish all that.
But you know, you really wouldn't want to.
It's just -- IB is a great time-safer, and it's
an integral part of the development environment.
Xcode is, of course, the IDE.
The development environment.
It not only does project management, it
has features such as syntax coloring,
code folding, refactoring, data modelling and so on.
And also the Compiler and the debug tools.
An important point here is that all of
these features are Objective-C enabled.
So when you're looking at your Cocoa program,
when you're looking for your Objective-C program you're
actually doing this in terms much Objective-C methods,
Objective-C back traces, Objective-C objects.
And in the tools area we have extra -- Xray now.
Which is sort of the new uber-tool
for all our new performance tools.
Xray allows you to look at a bunch of performance --
let's you do performance measurements
simultaneously on your application.
Again, all of these measurements it does, it
does it in a way which is Objective-C compatible.
It knows about Objective-C.
So again, when you see reports about what's
going on, what objects are being allocated,
it's all in terms of Objective-C objects and back
traces, and methods it applies to your program.
Okay. So with that little background to Cocoa, I
am now going to talk about what's new in Leopard.
Now if you were here last year, you already
heard a lot of stuff we covered at
a lot of stuff that we added to Leopard already.
But since then we've added a lot of new stuff.
Now a lot of this stuff is in the Release Notes.
And a bunch of it's also been documented.
Today we're sort of going to be unfair.
We're only going could cover some of the highlights
and some of the exemplary items, you know.
We're not going to go into detail about everything we've
added into Leopard because there is just way too much.
But we will cover the highlights.
So we're going to do it in five areas.
The first one is definitely where the bulk is.
We're going to talk about UI followed
by the other areas of Cocoa.
So yesterday you heard about this from both Steve's talk
and also Scott Forstall's talk in State of the Union.
We have a new window up here.
And so basically there's one look
and feel for title and tool bars.
And there's no more metal.
Now we used to have this textured background style.
Which indicated that a window should be metal.
It now simply indicates whether the title
tool bar gradient continues down the window.
So the way the gradient continues is there is a
light to -- sort of a darker gradient at the top.
Then there is a solid body, which will grow.
And then in addition there is another gradient from
that solid color to a darker color at the bottom.
So this is what you get if you use textured windows.
There's content in that window,
those gradients will be adjusted.
And there are ways to tweak that.
I am not going to talk more about textures windows,
because in general we want you to use non-textured windows.
But this is just to show you how a textured window behaves.
Now examples of non textured windows, for instance,
your common text document window is
an example of a non textured window.
Another example is preferences and preview.
There's a solid color in the background of non
textured windows that you can place Aqua controls on.
And here's another example of a non textured window.
The Font Book application.
Now at this point, though, you might be saying,
hey, there's a gradient border at the bottom.
Doesn't this make this is a textured window?
And the answer is no.
This is a lighter gradient -- in fact this gradient
is sort of similar to the gradient at the top.
We put a lighter grade in at the bottom as a way to
enable black text to be easily visible on that area.
So you would use this gradient if you want to put
controls or text as a -- sort of an alternate bottom bar.
Analogous to the tool bar on your window.
So how do you enable this?
There's an API which let's you set the
content border thickness for an edge.
For non textured windows, the only edge
that is valid for today is the bottom edge.
So we would go ahead and specify this.
And when you do that, that's where you, you know, this
is the bottom content border you would be specifying.
And then you would go in and put
your custom controls in there.
Now the other kind of window style is
this HUD, that's Heads Up Display windows.
Scott also went into this yesterday.
They can be borderless.
Or they can be titled.
And they are, of course, partially transparent.
Now heads up display windows are not
the general replacement for panels.
You shouldn't be replacing every panel in
your application with a Heads Up Display.
You would use them where the transparency is useful.
For instance, full screen applications.
And they are mostly for transient usages.
Like non modal panel, non -- such
as the font panel, color panel,
the user might bring up and leave it up there for a while.
But if they just want to bring up something, tweak
it, and dismiss it, maybe a HUD window is appropriate.
And it's also a convenient alternate
access to existing functionality.
An example here is Xray.
Yeah, Xray has a big window where
you have all your controls.
But if you minimize your Xray window,
it turns into a HUD window that's on top
of whatever you're trying to --
whatever you're trying to measure.
So here's what a HUD window looks
like in preview screen mode.
It's giving you slideshow capabilities.
And here's another example.
The HUD windows in iPhoto.
Now you will see three HUD windows at the top.
And then there's one more HUD window at the bottom.
I hope you can see this all the way at the bottom.
But one thing to note about this HUD window is that
there is a pop up and a slider in this HUD window.
Now, these are HUD -- what we call HUD style controls.
And we don't yet have support for
this in the AppKit in Leopard.
As you will notice, the other HUD
windows in here don't use controls,
they basically just use text items or images, whatever.
These are all things that can be easily done.
But if you wish to put controls like this in
your HUD windows, you're sort of on your own.
And either you can put Aqua controls or maybe
avoid those controls in HUD windows all together.
So resolution dependence.
If I were to put up one picture to define
resolution dependence, it would be this.
Basically goes to show ability to draw standard controls
and other drawing at -- in the resolution-dependent matter.
In this case they're being drawn at 8x. And we
have now enabled this resolution-dependent drawing
so that the same resolution drawing code path
is used for 1x, 2x, whatever you've chosen.
So this is the way things would look like before
in 8x, and this is the way they look after.
So before; after.
So there is -- there is a difference there.
Now here's a little fun fact for you.
Don't tell anyone.
But I am just going -- just between us.
If you hold down Command Control Option
3, your front-most app will switch back
and forth to using resolution dependence
drawing and non resolution dependence drawing.
This little debugging aid we added in there.
And you can actually see some sort of a difference
even at 1x, between the resolution dependent
and the non resolution dependent drawing.
So you can play with this right now.
Show you the debugging aid to see how it might
be effecting your applications, if at all.
It's something we intend to remove for the final release.
Assuming we don't forget.
( Laughter )
>> Now, along with resolution dependence we've also
added support for resolution independent NS Images.
That's are a number of standard images.
Here are a few examples.
And this is just the small -- a
small set that I am showing you.
Info, color panel, network, et cetera.
And let me just expand one of them.
Here's, for instance, the image that corresponds to network.
Now these are resolution independent.
They have a size, a conical size they have, that they use.
But if you wish to draw them at any other size, they
will accommodate you and look pretty, like this.
Now the way you access these images
is with the API we had for years.
NS Image image named.
You would say NS Image image named.
Network. Now, a word of warning here.
You look at this beautiful network
image and you might be tempted.
For instance, you might say I'm writing a fantasy
game and I really need a gray, magical orb.
The network image looks great.
So you would say, my gray magic
orb is now the network image.
The word of warning is this.
In the next release we might decide to represent network,
we're going to start using, say, a coaxial cable.
So suddenly your wizards in the fancy
game are walking around with a bag
of coaxial cables, which is not quite what you wanted.
So this is a no-no.
Typically when you're using these images, please use them,
you know, just look at the name, see what the name defines,
look at the documentation and use
them just for that purpose.
Don't misuse them, otherwise you might
be surprised in the next release.
The intent here is these images are there to give
you a common look and feel across all applications.
Now another set of resolution and NS Images are
these template images, and you can recognize these
because they have the word template at the end of the name.
Now these are monochromatic by default.
I believe they are gray if you try to draw them as is.
However, the intent here is that you would put them -- these
in NS cells, and then you would set the background style,
or you would put them in standard cells like
button cells, and the right thing would happen.
For instance.
If you add template image into a
gradient button, this is the way it looks.
It actually has a little bit of embossing in there.
I don't know if you can see it.
So depending on the context, these images about be
processed by NS Cell, and appear in an appropriate map.
And you can go ahead and use a cell, a pretty vanilla
cell, to draw these in your own contexts if you wish.
Now here's one more thing to notice.
The last two images to go right and
right-facing triangle are the same.
Here we wanted -- you know, the
temptation here might be too great.
Because let's say you need a right-facing triangle.
If we don't provide that, you might
have used the go right image to do that.
Again, to remove the temptation of using the go right
image in place of triangle, we're providing both.
Currently, they have to be the same image.
But in the next release, if the go right image changes to --
for instance a sign post or a finger
pointing right, the triangle will not change.
So use the appropriate one.
There are two talks which will go into more --
which will give you a lot of information
on drawing and images and cells.
And those are tomorrow morning at 9,
the customs controls for Cocoa talk.
And then at 10:30, the Cocoa drawing techniques talk.
Accessory views and alerts.
This is something that you've asked for a lot.
And we finally have it in Leopard.
Basically, alerts are simple to use.
You just -- one line and then you can put
up an alert panel, with, you know, cancel,
install, okay, whatever your buttons are.
But if you want to customize it, it
was fairly difficult to do before.
Now we have a way to do that and as you might except,
the API parallels the other API in panels to do this.
Set accessory view accessory.
That's it.
You create your own custom view in IB,
you know, IB is the usual way to do it.
And then you would give it to the alert panel
and bingo, you get your accessory panel.
Now, one common usage of this is the check box.
So refreshen check box.
Do not show me this again.
And we make this even simpler by providing
this API, set show expression button.
If you say yes to this, you automatically get
a check box with that default text on there.
And if you wish, you can ask for the suppression button,
which is the check box, and changes title or initial state.
And of course when the panel is
dismissed, ask for the current state.
Now again, a word of warning from before.
This is meant for a suppression check box.
And in the future we might change
the way it looks, the way it behaves.
Maybe it's not even going to be a check box any more.
Do not use this for any purposes other than a check box.
If you use a check box which is not a suppression check
box, just go ahead and add your own accessory view.
dock tile. In Leopard we now have this new class
that enables the customized drawing into the dockk.
So let me bring up a dock.
Oh, wait, first of all.
This is how you get an instance of dock tile.
You could -- you would ask the
application object for its dock tile object.
Similarly, you can do the same thing for a window.
So let me bring up a dock now.
So here's your dock.
An example of this is here.
The -- the little badge on the Mail icon
indicating that you have seven unread messages.
The API said badge label.
You just pass this string.
Preferably a small string.
Enables you to put that string right
into that little red star there.
And this is something Mail uses, iChat uses,
and something your application can use as well
to indicate there's some pending
activity that you need to look at.
Another kind of customization is this icon here.
Now these are mini windows, minimized windows.
And they're typically badged with the
application icon that they belong to.
But if for some reason you do not want that application icon
on there because you're doing some other custom drawing,
you can disable that by calling set show application badge.
Default is yes.
So you would say no.
And the final customization is perhaps the most interesting.
For instance, iCal is showing the current date.
Xcode is showing progress of the build.
Activity viewers is showing the CPU usage.
And finally on your GPS-enabled Powerbook or
MacBook Pro, Safari's showing where north is.
Actually that -- yes, we didn't release that yet.
But anyway --
( Laughter )
>> Could happen.
anyway, that API is very simple.
Set content view.
You just tell a dock tile set content view.
And now you control the drawing of that view.
And you know, what -- draw whatever you want.
So it's a way to totally customize drawing in that dock tile.
Split view customizations.
You know, split view is a class
that doesn't get much respect.
But if you look in your apps they're everywhere.
They are a lot of split views.
And then in recent releases, you know,
in Leopard, there are actually many,
many kinds of split views appearing in applications.
Not just the standard bar with a dimple in it.
For instance, in Mail this area
here is a 1-pixel wide split view.
However, since the user cannot click on a 1-pixel wide
area, the cursor changes as the user gets near it.
So this is an example of a new kind of split bar.
And now we're enabling this with the set divider style API.
You can specify thin as a way to get this new thinner look.
And the default is thick.
You can also get the color of this divider.
The color depends on what kind of divider bar you've set.
Or you can override this to change the color if you wish.
And one other way to customize things
is to change the effective area.
For instance, if you decide you want your cursor to
change, to split to be effective, some pixels on this side
but not on this side you can change
direct where it's effected.
Now one other customization that
you can see here is the ability
to put little dragging areas in
addition to the splitter bar.
I don't know if you can see it at the bottom there.
The Mail window.
And this is done by another delegate method, which let's
you specify the additional effect of dragging area.
And you just, you know, return a rectangle here.
And then you go ahead and put your custom control or
your standard button in there to do that, the dragging.
One other split view feature is auto saving.
If you're familiar with auto saving feature in NS
window, it saves the -- well, one person likes it.
Thank you.
So it lets you save the window's
position automatically to user defaults.
Then you can now do this with the exact same API.
Set, auto, save name.
And split -- the split view will save the positions of bars
and also whether they are collapsed
or not out in the defaults.
And this is also not only accessible through
the simple API, but in Interface Builder
in the split view inspector you can go
ahead and just type in the name you wish.
Very, very simple to use.
Menu item.
Now this is something we talked about last time.
But it's such a great little feature, I
definitely wanted to talk about it now as well.
It let's you customize menu item drawing.
And not let's you customize it.
It let's you handle events.
This includes mouse and keyboard events.
And can also animate.
So here's an example where we put sliders into a menu.
You know, not that this is a great UI
here, but this is something you can do.
The API is again extremely simple.
You just add a view.
You set the view that corresponds to the mean
you item and Cocoa does the rest for you.
And of course those views could have controls,
target action, bindings, whatever you want.
All the power of Cocoa is available to you in that view.
Collection view.
This is a new class.
It had made an appearance at the last WWDC.
It was known then as Grid View, but
it went -- underwent a name change.
Collection View is simply described as NS matrix per views.
For those of you who are familiar with NS Matrix,
it's basically our collection, our
UI class that shows grid of cells.
But now we can do this for views.
And Collection View is actually a lot more powerful.
I'm going -- I'll explain that now.
An example of Collection View is in Interface Builder.
The library in interface builder
is actually the collection view.
So as objects are deleted, removed, sorted, et
cetera, these things animate and that's some
of the features that Collection View provides.
Another great feature of Collection View
is that it's fully driven via bindings.
It can be fully competent Interface
Builder with zero lines of code.
Now let me explain the architecture
of collection view a bit.
Just to short of make this a little bit more concrete.
Here we have a collection view.
Typically, the contents for a collection view comes from
-- comes by binding the content to an array controller.
Or you can actually assign an array to this content.
So anyway, you bind it to an array controller.
The content comes from there.
Then there is a prototype.
A collection view item class -- that's your item
prototype -- and that in turn points to a view.
You design the view in Interface Builder.
This is the view that's going to
appear in the collection view.
Now when that view object is added, the item
and the view are automatically replicated.
So let me show you that.
We're going to add a new object
array to the array controller.
This causes a new collection item to be created.
It's represented object points to the newly added object.
And the view is replicated and added to the collection view.
Now let's add in that second object,
and the same thing happens.
A second view appears.
And the third one will do the same thing.
Now one final piece of this puzzle is that the values in
the UI elements in the view -- so these guys up here --
the values in here -- shows there
can be arbitrary views in here.
Text fields, sliders, whatever.
These are bound to the corresponding
items represented object.
Now of course represented objects are here.
So this is all automatic.
Just by specifying these connections in interface
builder this collection view will respond
to addition, removal of objects.
And if you change the sorting in the array
controller the collection view will respond and so on.
Now -- talking about animation, let's talk
about animation support we've added to Cocoa.
You've seen this yesterday.
There's great animation capabilities in Leopard.
And we bring this to NS Views and NS Windows, and in
fact any Cocoa object in general if you wish to add it.
The way this works is that to animate a
property, let's take a view as an example --
to animate a property in NS View instead of just
setting the value of that property in the view,
you talk to the view's animator to set the same property.
Now the view's animator is a proxy.
It acts like the view for most purposes,
but if you tell it to set the value
of an animatable property, it will animate that property.
So if you set the frame in the Animator, the view will
actually animate from its old location to the new location.
And size. Now there's a reasonable set of default settings.
Most of the time you don't even have
to change these default settings.
You can just go ahead with this and, you
know, reasonable animations will occur.
So that's -- that's simple as it can get.
Now so far one thing I haven't
talked about is Core Animation.
Because it turns out that this feature
in view can work without Core Animation.
However, for sophisticated animations, highly performing
animations, you will probably want to enable Core Animation.
And you do that by turning on layer backing for views.
In the API for that is settle once layer.
So you tell a view set wants layer yes.
This enables layer backing for
that view and all its sub views.
This is also possible to do in Interface Builder.
We are checking this wants layer box in the Inspector.
Now what this does, it turns on
layer backing as I mentioned.
It enables per view alpha, shadow, and also filters.
What this means is you get fancy visual
effects and high performance animation.
So if you have large areas animating, many objects
animating, and the standard animation view doesn't do it
for you, definitely enable Core Animation-based animations.
And this also enables additional features such as
hosting of Cocoa controls and NS OpenGL views.
Before, if you wanted to put a button
on top of an OpenGL view you would have
to create a child window and so on and manage that.
And that was definitely in the realm of complex is possible.
Well now it's simple things simple.
You just put those things on top of OpenGL view.
Now the session in this room after me is Cocoa Animation.
Building Animated Cocoa User Interfaces.
And James Dempsey will be talking to
you about -- more about these features.
And just one more thing, again, between all
of us here, I think I saw a guitar back stage.
So for those of you who know James --
( Applause )
View Controller is a new class.
It's basically NS Window Controller for views.
Now it turns out nobody really asked for this class.
However, whenever we look at your sample code or
we looked at various code people have been writing,
it was clear that people needed this class.
Because people would use a windows
controller to control views.
And that's sort of an abuse of NS Window Controller.
It's useful for plug-in architectures where dynamic sets of
views are, you know, are being swapped in and out and so on.
It's also useful it turns out for
incorporating Cocoa views into Carbon windows.
In conjunction with that HI Cocoa as I mentioned.
You basically create your view hierarchy, have it controlled
by NS View Controller, and put that into your HI Cocoa view.
And there is a sample for this that you
can download from your attendee site.
Now, just like an NS Window Controller, a
View Controller manages top level objects.
And it also confronts the NS Cell through informal protocol.
Which means if a user types in the text field and
closes the window without hitting tab or return,
it will manage the discarding or
committing of that value, for instance.
And these are the highlights of
the methods in View Controller.
There's a represented object, you can set and get that.
There's a title.
It turns out many of the context
for View Controllers are used.
The title is useful.
And then there's finally the view that's being controlled.
The -- you can either -- this normally comes from IB.
But you can also override this to change
the view that is being controlled.
Now this view control discussion might be a
little abstract for some of you, you know,
maybe hard to visualize what this is useful for.
So let me give a concrete example.
The Print Panel, the Print Dialogue, it used to have --
it has a set accessory view where you can customize
the behavior of adding your accessory view.
In Leopard we've now enabled customizing it further
by adding this method, Add Accessory Controller.
And this can be called multiple times
to add multiple accessory views.
And the argument here is a View Controller.
You sub class View Controller and you supply it here.
We've also provided this protocol, Print Panel
Accessorizing to tell you what methods you need
to implement on top of anything else you might need.
Here's what that protocol looks like.
It's got two methods.
One of them is required and one of them is optional.
I'll talk about optional methods shortly.
But basically you implement a sub class of View Controller
and implement the required method, and optionally,
the other method and then you're good to go.
And then the thing here is that the represented object
of each controller is settle to the NS Print info object.
Print info object is the object that maintains the
print settings so it's a reasonable represented object
and it lets your accessory views
basically change the settings in there.
Now let me give an example of this
to make it even more concrete.
Now you might know of TextEdit.
TextEdit is the word processor, the simple
word processor that was shipped with Mac OS X.
And the sources are available, by the way, on
your systems if you want to look at this later.
Here's what the Print Panel for TextEdit looks like.
Now one major feature here is the inclusion of
the print preview, which is pretty much automatic
for Cocoa applications under --
under some sort of consensus.
But there you go.
It's the print -- it's a live preview
of the document that's being printed.
Now, let's put that aside.
Because I want to talk about the accessory view.
TextEdit adds this one sample accessory
view that just has this one check box.
Print header and footer.
And when the user checks that check box what happens is
the headers and footers appear in the corners of the page.
And this happens live.
And that's what that API I just showed you -- the
Print Panel accessory thing -- tries to enable.
So here is what the sub class of
View Controller would look like.
There are two methods.
Set page numbering, and page numbering.
No need to look at the code here.
The point is that these are KVC compliant.
In addition, we implement that method in
protocol key paths for values effecting preview.
And return to key page numbers.
So what this means is that when the page numbering --
the value for page numbering, the
preview is automatically displayed.
So that's what this enables.
Okay. Speaking of TextEdit, now we
should talk about text system features.
And there are a number of great
features in the text system in Leopard.
Non contiguous layout.
This enables multimegabyte documents to be opened by the
Cocoa text system much faster and much more efficiently.
It's doing a much better job now with huge documents.
We now support new document formats.
The Open document format, and the
Microsoft Office Open XML Format.
And these can be both read and written.
In addition, there's grammar checking, smart quotes,
link detection, and a number of other features.
Now some of these features are
reflected in Interface Builder Inspector.
You can actually enable, for instance,
automatic quote substitution where, you know,
non-fancy quotes convert to fancy quotes.
But if you're in the context of Xcode, for
instance, that's something you might want to disable.
Otherwise the compiler wouldn't be happy with you.
I am not going to talk more about the text system features,
but there is a talk, Customizing the Cocoa Text System,
tomorrow afternoon where Doug Davidson and Aki Inoue
will talk about these features,
and also in general how to customize the text system.
Okay. Now that was the big UI part of our talk.
Now let's get to Core Data.
What new in Core Data.
So persistent store API.
This enables your -- you to have -- you
to use custom stores in your applications.
There's an abstract base class, NS persistent store,
but typically you would sub class its
somewhat abstract class, NS atomic store.
And there are five methods you need
to override, and here they are.
So by doing this you can have your own file formats.
And there is an example you can download.
I believe it's called HTML store.
Which let's you -- which shows you
how to use an HTML file as a store
for your Core Data -- for your Core data managed data.
We have other changes in NS Fetch Request.
Now Fetch Request allows much finer
grain than performance tested fetches.
And there are these methods that let you control
exactly how objects are loaded or not loaded.
Include sub entities, include property
values, only return objects that are false.
These are all yes by default, but you can tweak the
behavior depending on how much stuff you want to load in.
There's an example called Go Fetch
which shows these in action as well.
I mention these examples because if you're interested more
in the Core Data sessions -- well, you missed them all.
Because they were this morning and one's going on right now.
So the examples are -- examples
are the only thing you can look at.
One other performance aid here is Manage Object
context, which has this new method this let's you --
returns the number of objects that would be fetched
for a Fetch Request without actually returning them.
And if all you need is a number of objects and not the
objects themselves, this is a huge performance win.
Finally the big -- other big Core Data
feature is the version of migration API.
Typically -- you know, as you know,
the Core Data stores are very much --
are very tied to the model that's defined for them.
So whenever you change your model,
of course the store no longer works.
This new API, there's a mapping model class
which let's you define how a mapping --
how a model maps from one version to the other.
And of course this let's you control, you know,
when writing the stores for those different models.
Using the NS migration manager
class you can actually get a --
you can actually migrate a model up, or even in fact down.
You down grade to a previous version.
And you control the set runtime.
And Xcode also has tools to let
you define these mapping models.
So you're actually doing it in Xcode.
You don't have to do it in code.
Okay. So with that, let's move on to non UI.
Which, of course, means mostly
foundation stuff at this point.
You heard about this yesterday.
The new NS Operation class.
This class represents an encapsulated task.
And when I say task, I don't mean NS task.
You know, the kernel task.
It's more than an operation, some --
some encapsulated piece of thing to do.
This enables specifying dependencies in
terms of other operations, priorities,
and whether these things can execute concurrently.
Meaning they can be run on separate
threads against each other.
Now NS Operation's partly abstract.
You would typically sub class NS Operation
and specify what operation needs to be done.
However, we do supply a concrete sub class NS Invocation
operation, where it can supply a target and selector,
or NS indication, as though we define a concrete operation.
Now, one other helper classes here, the Operation Queue, and
Operation Queue performs NS Operations in the background.
You create your operations, you put them in the queue, and
they will be executed automatically in the background.
Now my default Operation Queue does the right thing.
And Simon Patience talked about this a bit yesterday.
But you know, NS Operation might start executing operations
concurrently based on how many CPUs are in your machine.
But if some of those operations got blocked due to IO,
then NS Operation Queue might choose
to start with more operations.
You know, this is the kind of smarts that
would be very hard for you to control.
Because this really involves knowledge of the kernel inside.
So it's fairly powerful stuff.
We've also done some threading improvements,
which are worth mentioning right now
of the we have less and faster locking throughout.
For instance, at synchronize is now much faster.
And retain and release are also much
faster in the face of contention.
You know, when there are multiple threads trying
to do things, these things could slow down a bit.
But now they are much faster.
Similarly, Objective-C 2.0 properties -- not similar,
but along the lines of threading improvements
-- properties are atomic by default.
What this means is if one thread is setting
a property and another thread is getting
that property, you will never get a corrupt value back.
It does the orderly thing in the right context.
And if it's returning multiword values like
NS ref, you will never get half a ref back.
That's what atomic means.
Now, one important thing.
This doesn't imply high level synchronization.
If you need high level synchronization of your object
you still have to lock your objects at a higher level.
For instance, if you ask an array for the number
of items and you start enumerating those items,
the array might change between those calls.
So in those cases you need to have your
own -- own synchronization around --
around your beta structures, or around your code.
Now there are also new NS object
methods to improve threading.
And I will just show you one could whet your appetite.
This is basically the lazy man's method.
Perform selector in background.
So this creates a thread and executes it.
So it's a way for your thread to
just execute this elsewhere,
and I don't want to be blocked,
I don't want to hear about it.
Just execute it.
It's fairly straight forward.
There are a few other methods like this, and
you can go to these two talks Thursday morning,
Partitioning Your Cocoa Application, or the
Performance and Boosting Response and Performance.
A glorious title.
You can go to these two talks and hear more about
NS Operations threading improvements and much more.
Three new classes.
NS hash table map, table pointer array.
These correspond to or they're analogous
to NS Set, NS Dictionary, and NS Array.
What these classes do is they're customizable.
You can put objects or non objects in these classes.
They can have different copy retain behaviors,
and one interesting behavior they have is
the ability to do zeroing weak references.
This is very interesting for Garbage Collection, because
when an object gets garbage collected, any references,
any weak references to those objects in these
collections are automatically cleared out,
which is very good for Garbage Collection purposes.
And something that will be very
hard for you to do correctly.
Because there are a lot of raised
conditions involved in that.
Now, again, this is a case for simple usage is simple.
You create a hash table by, for instance , you
can create it by hash table with weak objects.
This means create me a hash table
where objects are not retained.
And the garbage collected in mind, which
means the objects, you know, this reference,
does not cause object to not be garbage collected.
Or if you want a more sophisticated set up, you go
ahead and create an instance of pointer functions.
You create pointer functions.
You can then set -- oops, sorry.
Twitchy finger there.
Let's go for it.
Okay. You can set the echo function
and the hash function, for instance.
Or there's a number of other functions you can set and
create your hash table from these pointer functions.
And this says to customize these
collections any which way you want.
Okay. Scripting.
I am not going to say much about scripting
except we have a bunch of new features.
Some new features to enable scripting to -- the scripting
abilities of your application to grow with plug-ins.
There's support for these hidden attributes an sib
elements, which let's you support all their deprecated APIs
So basically enable you to have old scripts
continuing running while you present the new API
to new script developers.
And finally, much better error sensing and reporting.
There is a talk for Cocoa scripting
that's tomorrow afternoon at this time.
Not this room, but this time.
Where you can hear Mark Piccirelli
talk about these improvements.
So 64-bit.
You heard about this yesterday.
Leopard enables Cocoa applications
that are 64-bit throughout.
And by this I don't mean -- I just -- I don't
mean just -- you can compile your app at 64-bit.
But they can actually manage 64-bits worth of data.
Because some of the classes like -- or most of
the classes like string, array, the text system,
are actually also capable of dealing
more than 32 bits worth o2f data.
Now to enable this, we've added three new
types, NS Integer, NS UInteger.
These replace Int and unsigned int, respectively.
And CG float, which replaces graphical
and related float quantities in the APIs.
Now really, there's only three new types.
But you know, it's really a huge API change.
Because hundreds of methods in the API have been effected.
Where Int now becomes NS integer, unsigned int becomes
NSU Integer and so on.
But you know, when you look at the definition, you
see that for 64-bit, these are defined as longs,
or doubles, which means they're 64-bit quantitdies.
But for 32-bit they're defined as their previous definition.
So really, although the declarations
themselves have changed, API is not changing.
32-bit applications totally binary incompatible.
Exactly the same as before.
Now let me show you what the API
looks like with these changes.
For instance, NS Array used to have an
account method that returns unsigned Int.
Now returns NS U integer.
Object Index now takes NS View integer.
The line spacing and paragraph style used to be a float.
Now it's a CG float.
And of course, in 64-bit this is a double.
Which means you get much better precision.
And the basic types, like NS point, NS
size, are now in terms of CG floats.
This means that direct basic type
are also in terms of CG floats.
It's in terms of points and sizes.
Now you know, if you take your Cocoa application and
you compile for 64-bit, you might get a few warnings,
you might not get anything, no
warnings, and might seem to run.
However, if you're still content to use Ints
and unsigned Ints and floats in your program,
there might be a lot of hidden bugs in there.
Things will crash, maybe mysteriously later.
In addition, of course, your program might not be able to
process 64-bit quantities as effectively as you might want.
So we have this conversion script that will convert your
Objective-C source code to use these new source types.
Typically, you would run this conversion
script and then depending on the size
of your app you might spend a few quality minutes or
hours or maybe days in file merge, looking at the discs,
or maybe using Xcode's new Snapshot feature,
looking at the discs and fixing them up one by one.
And most of the time, most of the changes will be, you know,
along the same lines so it should
be pretty quick to get through.
This script -- running this script
is -- and its effects are described
in the 64-bit transition guide, which is available.
You can get to it from your Xcode documentation.
Oh, and worth mentioning, Friday morning at 9
a.m. we have an Adopting 64-bit Programming Talk,
where Matthew Formica will talk about just --
just give you an overview of 64-bit and talk
about the various API changes and so on.
And that's Friday morning.
Okay. So now let's talk about Objective-C.
So Garbage Collection is a big new feature.
Now the biggest -- the most important thing
about Garbage Collection, you've probably --
if you've come to WWDC the last few years
you're heard about Garbage Collection.
There was talk of Garbage Collection in the air.
And now it's real.
And that's the important thing.
It's real enough tomorrow Xcode to use Garbage Collection.
So you probably heard this yesterday,
but Xcode is a garbage collected app.
Now Garbage Collection is easy to get started with.
You just enable it within Xcode.
So if you bring up the build inspector,
you can go ahead and check that check box
to enable Garbage Collection for your application.
Now, one thing about Garbage Collection
is that it's best for new applications.
It's not the kind of thing that you should go take
your big application, you know, that's already running,
already debugged, and change it to use Garbage Collection.
We do not recommend that.
Instead, you know, if you're selling a
new project it's a good thing to consider.
Now of course, if you're a big existing application that
had a lot of memory problems and crashed every few minutes
and leaked all over the place, maybe it is a good idea.
But anyway -- now one more app that Garbage
Collection turns out to be good for is BlastApp.
Now, I don't know how many of you know about BlastApp.
Oh, there's one person.
BlastApp is this retro looking helicopter game.
I mean, it's really retro.
It was retro the day it was written, like, 20 years ago.
And still is retro.
But it was written as an Objective-C
app for back in the day.
And it was converted to Cocoa Java.
And recently it was converted back to Objective-C.
Now one thing that happened when it got converted
to Java is all the retains and releases got dropped.
Of course had it got converted back to
Objective-C, the last thing, you know,
somebody wants to do is put all
the retains and releases back in.
So instead we just checked some check box
and some Garbage Collection works great.
So there's another example of something that works --
I mean, that's what Garbage Collection's very good for.
There is a GC -- in depth GC talk Friday afternoon at 3:30.
You can hear more about that.
Okay. Exceptions.
We now have a unified exception model that
unifies the exception models of C++
and Objective-C now one thing to note
here is that this is 64-bit only.
However, it is source compatible with 32.
Now in general, and I didn't mention this earlier.
But in general, we want you to have
one source base for 32 and 64-bit.
d
We don't want you to have to maintain
two different source bases for those two.
Now in this case, the exception code you
write for 32-bit will be source compatible
with 64-bit except it will have
different behaviors in some cases.
Probably the biggest difference in
behavior is the fact that under 64-bit
with this new unified exception model it's much
cheaper to enter NS during or at try block.
However, it's more expensive to
raise or to throw an exception.
Now this of course is in sync with
Cocoa's exception handling guidelines.
Cocoa's exception handling guidelines state that, you
know, we don't use exceptions for normal program flow.
We don't use exceptions for regularly expected errors.
But they are used for unexpected
errors or programming errors and such.
Now also let me talk a bit about properties.
I am not going to go into too much detail in
properties, but properties provide new syntax
for declaring properties, and synthesizing accessors.
Now properties are really great at eliminating tons of code.
For instance, here we have three property
declarations, and they have their time and At Interface.
And at the bottom is the implementation
file, where just putting one At Synthesize,
we're able to synthesize the getters
and setters for those properties.
And not only are these -- getters and setters do what
you might expect, as I mentioned earlier, they are atomic
and they do the right thing for different types.
They handle the memory management rules and
they're okay, they work for Garbage Collection
or not, depending on how your app is built.
So it's very powerful stuff.
So one question at this point is that, you know,
let's say that you open up NS View dot H. And you saw
that there was absolutely zero use of At Properties.
So the question you might have is why doesn't Apple
use the At Properties syntax if this stuff is so great?
Well, it turns out we do use it.
There are some of our APIs, especially
in the newer frameworks
and the newer classes that do use the properties syntax.
For instance, Image Kit uses property,
and most of it is APIs.
And really, the bottom line is all
of our APIs should be using this.
And you know, it just hasn't happened yet.
That's just where we are.
Now of course the good news is that property
syntax isn't all that magically different.
It does let you get meta data about
those properties, but other than that,
the property and non property declarations are equivalent.
For instance, just because NS View did not use a property,
doesn't mean in your sub class of
NS View you can't use At Property.
You can go ahead and do that.
In fact, there is a new dot syntax, and you know,
we don't talk too much about that yesterday,
I am not going talk too much about it now.
But the new dot syntax allows you to
get properties by using dot syntax.
That turns out to be orthogonal
properties, where you can use the dot syntax
to get properties that are not declared using At Property.
You know, you can say my view dot bounds.
Although bounds is not declared using At Property.
Or my view dot window dot title, or
my view dot once there equals yes.
So these will work.
So there are the two features that are orthogonal.
So turns out this is not a big issue right now.
And over time we should just switch that properties in our
header files of course, and I encourage you to do the same.
Fast animation.
You heard about this yesterday the syntax is great.
You know, this reads much better than
any of the previous alternatives we had.
This not only turns out to look better,
it's also much faster than reading one
by one because it does its work in batches.
So it's really a win, win situation here.
Now you can tell which classes
implement fast animation by looking
at which ones implement this fast animation protocol.
For instance, NS Array, implements NS Fast Enumeration.
And since there's a protocol for this stuff you can
actually implement fast animation in your own classes
by implementing the fast animation protocol.
There is just one method you have to implement.
Optional methods and protocols.
I showed you an example of this earlier where
we had the Print Panel accessorizing protocol.
So what this means is that for an object to be conforming
to a protocol is just needs to
implement the methods that are valid.
It can optionally implement the optional methods.
This puts a little bit of a burden on the caller,
or the caller has to be response to selector to see
if the object responds to those optional methods.
Now, what are the benefits of this?
Well, one benefit is now you can add
methods to a protocol in a later release.
Without this feature, if we publish the protocol
and your objects implemented this protocol,
and if we added two new methods to that protocol
later, your object would suddenly be non conforming.
You know, it would be in this situation where, hey --
so we would have to
maybe invent a new protocol or
create additional protocol and so on.
So this enables us to get around it
by added those methods as optional.
Another benefit is that this enables using
protocol for declaring delegate methods.
Now if you're familiar with delegate methods in Cocoa,
they're often declared as informal protocols NS objects.
But with these optional methods and protocols,
we intend to convert all our delegate methods
to actually be protocols with optional methods.
Here's an example that actually has been added in Leopard
for the new path control in the path cell classes.
These -- this is a -- here's a delegate --
here's a protocol defining a delegate method.
And the two methods in there are optional.
Since typically delegate methods are optional.
And so all the methods in this protocol are optional.
And again, you know, you might be
asking why isn't this done everywhere.
Well, it just hasn't happened yet.
Okay. Now Objective-C has support for GC attributes.
This is not something -- I don't
think they talked about any yesterday.
But it's actually a pretty powerful new feature.
These GCC attributes enable decorating
declarations with meta data.
And they actually look God awful.
There's an example.
What this -- what this horrendous yellow
thing says is that the first argument
of this function is a print out-like argument.
So that any percent Ds, percent Ss,
whatever in there, should be paired with,
you know, arguments in the rest of the functional.
So it's fairly powerful.
However, this attribute syntax is gnarly.
We go ahead and create macros to cover
this up a bit in many of the cases.
And let me show you some of the other usage scenarios.
For instance, availability and deprecations.
As lenient as a new method we've added, and it's
got this declaration available in 10.5 and later.
This is -- also the Compiler will pay attention to this.
If you are compiling against 10.4 it will warn you.
The C string method.
Famously deprecated a long time
ago, it now has a declaration on it.
If you try to use it, we'll give you a warning.
Another usage case here is putting sample requirements.
A common pitfall in Cocoa applications
is, like, saying NS Array with objects,
which takes a list of objects and
you forget to put the nil is in.
We now have this declaration at the end which causes
the Compiler to warn you if you forget to put the nil.
And again -- yes, it is a nice thing.
( Applause )
>> And again, if you look at this declaration you
will see it in terms of these attribute things.
But we try to hide a mess.
Using advantaged OBGCO features.
That's Thursday afternoon.
Right before we all go get drunk.
But anyway -- Thursday afternoon.
And at least it's now in this area.
We don't go all the way to Apple any more for this.
But anyway -- this talk will go not only into
this feature, but also go exceptions, protocols,
and a bunch of other things I just talked about.
Okay, and here's my absolute favorite feature in Leopard.
Non ASCII and constant NS traits.
( Applause )
>> Okay, well, actually it's not in the seed yet.
But --
( Laughter )
>> I am just telling you -- again, it's between us.
Don't tell it to anybody else.
You know, it's -- we normally don't
talk about things that are not there.
But this is so exciting I just had to tell you.
So now you can go ahead and do things like this.
You can use the first form, which is very safe.
You are just using uni code, U NS 16 code points
to put non ASCII characters in your string.
This will work everywhere.
It's great.
And by the way, programs using this will work all the way
back to -- theoretically, they will work back to 10.2,
but there are many other reasons applications won't work
back to 10.2, so anyway, the runtime knows about this.
Another way to represent this is with example
-- for example, is with UTF8 strings.
This is even less readable than the other format.
But of course the most desirable way to represent this is
by actually typing those characters
as you see in the third example.
With that, you know, funny little infamous snow man there.
Now to do the third form you really, really must trust
your editor not to lose the encoding of your file.
And Xcode does a great job of this.
It knows the end coding of your file.
But for instance if you ever open that file in some other
lesser editor and save it, it might ruin your files.
So this is something that, you know, to do
this you must be brave and trust your tools.
But if you can do it, it's of course great.
Now one thing here though.
This feature doesn't mean you can now take all the
localized string calls in your application and dump them.
You still need to localize all the strings
which are shown to the user, of course,
by using macros like NS Localized String and so on.
But now you can actually use real double quotes, fancy
quotes, long dashes, in the strings you're localizing.
So that's the feature you're getting here.
Thank you.
( Applause )
>> Okay. Now just very quickly, we're just
going to put up slides of other changes.
Not even talk about them.
We have several new controls.
Rule Editor and Predicate Editor are great.
They give you the same kind of UI that you see
in Mail and Finder for creating search rules.
Path Control.
Again. If you're showing paths in your
applications, if you're getting paths from the users,
path control is an object you should look at.
We have a bunch of other new classes.
Dictionary controller for bindings, we
have a great new tracking area class
which gives much finer control over tracking areas.
And other significant changes.
There's tons more.
You should really look through the
release notes to see what these are.
Table out line view.
Much better keyboard handling, for instance.
Open panel, save panel.
If you've seen it, it's got the Finder
like side bar, it supports icons and so on.
A lot of changes.
Many other changes throughout the --
throughout Foundation, Core Data and AppKit.
And of course all the other frameworks as well.
Okay. So, with that, let's talk a bit about best practices.
And this is -- these are mostly best practices
as you write your application for Leopard.
So one best practice is use properties.
Just single handedly, properties feature will help
eliminate dozens, hundreds of lines of source code.
And this is typically the kind of source
code that suffers from copy-paste errors.
Because you write your set-get methods, and then you
copy, paste them and you forget to change one thing.
And there are tools out there -- I mean there are
tools out there that help you write your accessors
and properties will eliminate all that work.
For a new application, consider Garbage Collection.
Now I talked earlier about why you would
consider this for a new application.
But there's one reason why Garbage
Collection might not be appropriate yet.
For an app to run garbage collected,
all the frameworks it depends on,
all the libraries it depends on must be garbage collected.
That includes all the plug-ins that might load.
That's not a problem for Apple frameworks.
But if you're using some third party frameworks which
are not yet garbage collected you might want to --
you might want to consider that maybe evangelize to get
those frameworks also to convert to Garbage Collection.
But anyway, that's something -- you know, make sure all
your dependencies are available in a garbage-collected form.
Be 64-bit ready.
Now you might not think you want to ship
a 64-bit app yet, and you don't need to.
You know, there are some reasons to shipped 64-bit apps,
but many applications don't yet -- aren't yet there.
But it's important to be 64-bit ready.
Instead of using Ints and unsigned Ints, use NS integers.
CG floats.
Once in a while compile your app for
64-bit and see what warnings there are.
And you know, if you do those things your app will
probably be 64-bit ready thde day you want to ship it.
And you can even -- if you're shipping your application
for Tiger you can make it 64-bit ready even there.
All you have to do is define -- when
I say it's going to be 64-bit ready,
I'm saying your app which is 64-bit
for Leopard will still run on Tiger.
All you have to do is define NS
integer, U integer, and CG float
using those simple definitions I showed earlier.
That way your app can still compile on Tiger,
and on Leopard it can compile as 64-bit.
d
Use multiple processors effectively.
Clearly, as you heard yesterday, that is the direction.
You know, instead of adding more
CPU cycles we're adding cores.
And having an application that can take advantage of mean,
that means your application will benefit
from increasing the number of cores.
Use NS Operations.
Think about how your applications can
be made more thread safe and so on.
Take advantage of new features.
Now, some of the features I've shown you require one
line, some require zero lines, some require two lines.
There's one that requires half a line.
So you know, sometimes enabling
new features is very little work.
You can go in and enable non contiguous
layouts in the text system.
And unless you're doing something very sophisticated, it
will probably require no more changes to your application.
You can, for instance, enable auto saving in this document.
That literally requires only one or two lines, and
suddenly there's a brand new feature in your application.
An ability to save your documents automatically.
So if your app or the system crashes,
you know, they're there.
And you know, you can do these even if
your app still needs to run on Tiger.
You can do something like response a selector, continue set
-- contiguous set, contiguous set needs continuous layout.
And if it's not there you know you're
on Tiger and you just don't call it.
So it's possible to use these dynamic determinations.
Avoid deprecated APIs.
Now that we've started deprecating
them it's easier for you to find them.
Not all of them have been deprecated yet.
But anyway, you know, just if you
see deprecated APIs, don't use them.
Use the suggested replacements instead.
And please don't use private or undeclared APIs.
This always ends in tears.
Either for you, or for us, or for the user.
You know, as we work hard to try to wrap Leopard up.
The biggest problems we run into are applications
which have used private, undeclared functionality.
Therefore they are breaking our assumptions
on how our objects are being used.
It's -- it's really a big problem.
And gets bigger, of course, as
there's more APIs to choose from.
And finally, start with the highest level of abstraction.
And this is an important enough point that I'm
just going to talk a little bit more about it.
Just give examples first.
An example is use NS View instead of Core Animation.
If you want to animate things in your Cocoa
application to view later, start by using NS View.
Turn on layer backing.
See how well that suits your needs.
If you find that doesn't suit your needs, you need much
more control, that's the time to go to Core Animation and,
you know, start doing more advanced things.
Now of course the reason for this is, in NS View you get
all sorts of features like event handling, tool tips,
tracking areas, training, accessibility --
the moment you drop down to Core Animation
and start doing your own drawing, you know,
you have to consider these other features.
Do you have to enable them, and
if so how are you going to do it.
So there's a lot of stuff NS View does for you.
Another example here is use NS types instead of CG types,
or CF types or other lower level types whenever you can.
For instance, NS font is FCG font.
S C array instead of CF array and so on.
And what are the reasons for these?
Well, one thing is this thing we call impedence matching.
If you have an NS font it will
work with Cocoa APIs much better.
If you have a CG font you will have to
convert it to an NS font at some point.
So you are paying that cost.
You are constantly going through this conversion process.
In addition, using NS types -- NS types
are a lot more Garbage Collection friendly.
The moment you start using CF types, some of
the retain release behaviors are different
in the garbage collected world for CF types.
And you've got to worry about the
bridging between those objects.
Another example here -- another thing I
mean, is use higher level functionality.
If you have some algorithm, you know, for dealing with
C strings, like Cons Care Star (Phonetic), or Point,
or Plus Plus, the first inclination
might be to convert the character index.
NS string character index.
That's often the wrong approach because it exposes you to
the -- some of the dirty, undersides of Unicode where --
you know, Unicode's very complicated because in the end.
It supports a lot of things, but there
are sometimes multiple characters need
to come together to represent one character.
You know, what the user might think of as a character.
And so on.
There are surrogate pairs and all this stuff.
So instead of using character with index and deal with
these issues yourself, use higher level functionality
like has prefix, arrange in string, and so on.
NS string has a whole set of rich
functionality that can help you here.
Similarly, instead of using objects that index
and NS Array, used enumeration facilities,
like make objects perform selector, or the four in.
This -- if you use those array
nodes you're trying to enumerate
and can optimize the access patterns while you're
using object at index, the array doesn't notice.
One final example here is NS document.
You know, NS document does a great job of saving files
on different file systems, handling the meta data,
handling it with all the quirks, doing appropriate
back up copies, auto saving and the whole --
and I don't envy them on the work NS document has to do,
it's just a lot of work.
And if you have to replicate them in your own
applications, you know, you could be a lot more productive
by letting NS document handle that, and you concentrate on
the things, of course, that differentiate your application.
By the way, on NS document one
thing to mention is TextEdit.
The word processor now using NS document in Leopard
so it could be a good showcase for what it is.
Okay, so why do you want to do all this?
Well, this way you know, we can change implementation
on their issue, we can improve it, we speed it up,
we add more features, and now this document
can do more things for you , for instance.
And so on.
And therefore you will be leveraging us.
So, you know, so we're providing the
foundation for you to build upon.
And you know, we enable you to ship innovative applications.
Concentrate on the things that you want to ship.
That's why you should always start with
the highest level abstraction that you can.
So that's that.
Please, for more information you can contact Deric Horn.
The application's Framework Evangelist.
He's down here in the front row right now of the we have
the usually attendee site with a lot of documentation
and sample programs, and the reminder that we have
source codes to applications like TextEdit and Sketch
and many more available on your
machine and developer examples folder.